==============================================
Exercise 1: Include JavaScript In Browser View
==============================================

..  warning::

    This exercise requires a working buildout using a fork of the
    collective.jstraining package.


For this exercise, we are simply including JavaScript in a browser view.

We will be working in the ``exercise1`` directory of the collective.jstraining package.

Add Your JavaScript File
========================

In your ``exercise1/static`` directory, add a file named ``script.js``.

This exercise is open ended as to what you do with JavaScript on the page.

We'll stay very simple for the sake of brevity, using `jQuery <https://jquery.com/>`_ to do a
animation effect on the title of the page

.. code-block:: javascript

    require([
      'jquery'
    ], function($){

      var cycle = function(){
        $('h1').animate({
          left: '250px',
          opacity: '0.5',
          'font-size': '30px'
        }, function(){
          $('h1').animate({
            left: '0',
            opacity: '1',
            'font-size': '20px'
          }, function(){
            setTimeout(function(){
              cycle();
            }, 2000);
          });
        });
      };

      $(document).ready(function(){
        cycle();
      });
    });


Feel free to customize the script to do whatever you'd like.


Register Static Resource Directory
==================================

Next, let’s register the static directory we just placed our script into.

To register, you need to add :term:`ZCML` registration for the static directory your script
is in.

Add this to the ``exercise1/configure.zcml`` file

.. code-block:: xml

    <plone:static
         directory="static"
         type="plone"
         name="exercise1"
         />


Register JavaScript Resource
============================

Let’s register our script as a JavaScript resource with Plone.

In the ``exercise1/profiles/default/registry.xml`` file, add configuration to register
your script

.. code-block:: xml

    <records prefix="plone.resources/exercise1"
                interface='Products.CMFPlone.interfaces.IResourceRegistry'>
          <value key="js">++plone++exercise1/script.js</value>
      </records>


Create Your Browser View
========================

..  warning::

    This might be redundant with other documentation.

    Skip ahead if you know how to create browser views.


Let’s load our JavaScript file to only load on a specific page you need it on.

In our case, let’s add a basic new page view.

The page template doesn’t need to implement any logic and we can use the main template
to bring in the content of the page we’re using in the JavaScript(h1).

Add this into your ``exercise1/page.pt`` file

.. code-block:: xml

    <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"
        xmlns:tal="http://xml.zope.org/namespaces/tal"
        xmlns:metal="http://xml.zope.org/namespaces/metal"
        xmlns:i18n="http://xml.zope.org/namespaces/i18n"
        lang="en"
        metal:use-macro="context/main_template/macros/master"
        i18n:domain="plone">
    <body>

    </body>
    </html>


Load Your JavaScript Resource
=============================

Add in view python code to tell Plone to render the script in the
``exercise1/browser.py`` file

.. code-block:: python

    from Products.CMFPlone.resources import add_resource_on_request
    from Products.Five import BrowserView


    class Exercise1View(BrowserView):

        def __call__(self):
            # utility function to add resource to rendered page
            add_resource_on_request(self.request, 'exercise1')
            return super(Exercise1View, self).__call__()


The most interesting part here is to look at ``add_resource_on_request``.

Wire it up with :term:`ZCML` registration in the ``exercise1/configure.zcml`` file

.. code-block:: xml

    <browser:page
         name="exercise1"
         for="*"
         class=".browser.Exercise1View"
         template="page.pt"
         permission="zope2.View"
         />


Installation
============

1) Start up your Plone instance
2) Install the ``Exercise 1`` add-on


Then, visit the URL: ``http://localhost:8080/Plone/front-page/@@exercise1``.

This is assuming your Plone is is located at the URL ``http://localhost:8080/Plone``.


Production
==========

In this exercise, there is no special distinction between development and
production builds.

The JavaScript is developed without any build process.
