Customizing pattern
===================

..  warning::

    This exercise requires a working buildout using a fork of the
    collective.jstraining package.


In this exercise, we'll be walking through customizing the livesearch pattern.

We will be working in the ``exercise10`` directory of the collective.jstraining package.

Add your pattern file
---------------------

In your ``exercise10/static`` directory, add a file named ``pattern.js``. Use
this file to build your pattern. This example will define a new pattern to
overwrite the existing livesearch pattern::


    /* global require */

    require([
      'jquery',
      'mockup-patterns-livesearch',
      'pat-registry'
    ], function($, Livesearch, registry) {
      'use strict';
      /* combining bundle and pattern in same file this example */


      // first, unregister existing pattern
      delete registry.patterns.livesearch;
      delete $.fn.patLivesearch;


      // creating new pattern automatically registers it
      Livesearch.extend({
        name: 'livesearch',
        trigger: '.pat-livesearch',
        parser: 'mockup',
        init: function() {
          var that = this;
          Livesearch.prototype.init.call(that);

          // all we're doing in this customization is defaulting to searching
          // current section
          $('.searchSection input', that.$el)[0].checked = true;
        }
      });

    });


Pay close attention to what we're doing here::

    ...
    delete registry.patterns.livesearch;
    delete $.fn.patLivesearch;
    ...

We're deleting the existing registration of the livesearch pattern.

Next, we're extending the existing pattern::

    ...
    Livesearch.extend({
    ...


And just overriding the ``init`` function to provide our customization(default
search current section):

    ...
    $('.searchSection input', that.$el)[0].checked = true;
    ...


Register static resource directory
----------------------------------

Next, let’s register the static directory we just placed our script into. To
register, you need to add ZCML registration for the static directory your script
is in. Add this to the ``exercise10/configure.zcml`` file::

    <plone:static
         directory="static"
         type="plone"
         name="exercise10"
         />


Register your bundle
--------------------

Again, registration is done examctly the same as previous exercises::

    <?xml version="1.0"?>
    <registry>

      <records prefix="plone.resources/exercise10"
                interface='Products.CMFPlone.interfaces.IResourceRegistry'>
        <value key="js">++plone++exercise10/pattern.js</value>
        <value key="css">
          <element>++plone++exercise10/pattern.less</element>
        </value>
      </records>

      <records prefix="plone.bundles/exercise10"
                interface='Products.CMFPlone.interfaces.IBundleRegistry'>
        <value key="resources">
          <element>exercise10</element>
        </value>
        <value key="merge_with">default</value>
        <value key="enabled">True</value>
        <value key="jscompilation">++plone++exercise10/exercise10-compiled.min.js</value>
        <value key="csscompilation">++plone++exercise10/exercise10-compiled.css</value>
        <value key="last_compilation">2016-10-04 00:00:00</value>
        <value key="stub_js_modules">
          <element>jquery</element>
          <element>mockup-patterns-livesearch</element>
          <element>pat-registry</element>
        </value>
      </records>

    </registry>


Installation
------------

We have all the files necessary to run the pattern now.

1) Start up your Plone instance
2) Install the ``Exercise 10`` add-on


Running
-------

At this point, we have no compiled version of the code that we're running with
so our code doesn't do anything.

1) Go into ``Site Setup`` -> ``Resource Registries``
2) Check "Development Mode"
3) Select to develop JavaScript and CSS for the ``exercise10`` bundle
4) Click save

Now, you should see the livesearch pattern default to searching the current
section.


Production
----------

To build our bundle, we'll utilize the ``plone-compile-resources`` script that
Plone ships with.


..  warning::

    If you're not running a ZEO setup, you'll need to shut down your Plone
    instance since the ZODB in this mode does not allow multiple processes
    to access it at the same time.


An example command will look like this::

    ./bin/plone-compile-resources --site-id=Plone --bundle=exercise10


Once this command finishes, your bundle is built and will be deployed with your
package package.
