NG2 APP component rendered in a browser view
============================================

..  warning::

    This exercise requires a working buildout using a fork of the
    collective.jstraining package.


For this exercise, we will run an angular 2 application inside a plone browser view.

We have most of the angular 2 boiler plate code created for you so let's just
finish up a few things so you can customize it.

In this case we are going to use angular client to create the app inside the package.

We will be working in the ``exercise2`` directory of the collective.jstraining package.

Bootstrap
---------

Install npm dependencies::

    cd exercise2/static
    npm install -g angular-cli
    ng new ng2app

Add your angular 2 component
----------------------------

In your ``exercise2/static/ng2app`` directory, there is a bolierplate code
for an ng2 app. You can use ng2 cli to create new components, modules,
services,... We hope you like typescript.

We can change the exercise2/static/src/app/app.component.html to create your own template.

Like I said, you can do whatever in this module.


Register static resource directory
----------------------------------

Next, let’s register the static directory we just placed our script into. To
register, you need to add ZCML registration for the static directory your script
is in. Add this to the ``exercise2/configure.zcml`` file::

    <plone:static
         directory="static"
         type="plone"
         name="exercise2"
         />


Build the file with webpack
---------------------------

Our deployment is built using webpack::

    cd exercise2/static
    ng build --prod


Whenever you make a change to your component files, webpack will auto re-build
the distribution


Register JavaScript resource
----------------------------

Angular CLI creates three js, one for basic webpack instructions, 
one with the main js and another with the styling js. You will need 
to register the three on the ``exercise2/profiles/default/registry.xml``::


    <records prefix="plone.resources/exercise2-inline"
              interface='Products.CMFPlone.interfaces.IResourceRegistry'>
      <value key="js">++plone++exercise2/ng2app/dist/inline.js</value>
    </records>
    <records prefix="plone.resources/exercise2-main"
              interface='Products.CMFPlone.interfaces.IResourceRegistry'>
      <value key="js">++plone++exercise2/ng2app/dist/main.8b778eea5dd35968ef66.bundle.js</value>
      <value key="deps">exercise2-inline</value>
      <value key="deps">exercise2-style</value>
    </records>
    <records prefix="plone.resources/exercise2-style"
              interface='Products.CMFPlone.interfaces.IResourceRegistry'>
      <value key="js">++plone++exercise2/ng2app/dist/styles.b52d2076048963e7cbfd.bundle.js</value>
    </records>

Its really important that in case that you need to have dependency on loading 
the js you define on the registry.xml as its showen for the main js.

Finally we want to create a single entry point to load them, so we are going to
create and register a js with the requires that are loading the app on a file
called ``static/ng2app/main.js``::

require(['exercise2-inline','exercise2-style','exercise2-main'])

With the main.js defined on the filesystem we can now create the resource as a new
resource.

    <records prefix="plone.resources/exercise2"
              interface='Products.CMFPlone.interfaces.IResourceRegistry'>
      <value key="js">++plone++exercise2/ng2app/main.js</value>
    </records>


Create your browser view
------------------------

..  warning::

    This might be redundant with other documentation. Skip ahead if you know
    how to create browser views.


Finally, let’s load our JavaScript file to only load on a specific page you need
it on.

In our case, let’s add a basic new page view. The page template doesn’t need to
implement any logic and we can use the main template to bring in the content of
the page we’re using in the JavaScript(h1). Add this into your ``exercise1/page.pt`` file::


    <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"
        xmlns:tal="http://xml.zope.org/namespaces/tal"
        xmlns:metal="http://xml.zope.org/namespaces/metal"
        xmlns:i18n="http://xml.zope.org/namespaces/i18n"
        lang="en"
        metal:use-macro="context/main_template/macros/master"
        i18n:domain="plone">
    <body>

      <metal:content-core fill-slot="content-core">
      <metal:content-core define-macro="content-core">
        <my-app></my-app>
      </metal:content-core>
      </metal:content-core>

    </body>
    </html>


The ``my-app`` tag is what is used for the component selector. You can customize
this and use whatever selector you like.


Load your JavaScript resource
-----------------------------

Add in view python code to tell Plone to render the script in the
``exercise2/browser.py`` file::

    from Products.CMFPlone.resources import add_resource_on_request
    from Products.Five import BrowserView


    class Exercise2View(BrowserView):

        def __call__(self):
            # utility function to add resource to rendered page
            add_resource_on_request(self.request, 'exercise2')
            return super(Exercise2View, self).__call__()


The most interesting part here is to look at ``add_resource_on_request``.

Finally, wire it up with ZCML registration in the ``exercise1/configure.zcml`` file::

    <browser:page
         name="exercise2"
         for="*"
         class=".browser.Exercise2View"
         template="page.pt"
         permission="zope2.View"
         />


Installation
------------

1) Start up your Plone instance
2) Install the ``Exercise 2`` add-on


Then, visit the URL:
``http://localhost:8080/Plone/front-page/@@exercise2``. This is assuming your Plone
is is located at the URL ``http://localhost:8080/Plone``.


Production
----------

In this exercise, there is no special distinction between development and
production builds. Webpack re-builds the resource on every change for you
and the JavaScript build file is not added to any bundle--it is just loaded
for this particular page.
