NG2 APP component in a bundle
=============================

..  warning::

    This exercise requires a working buildout using a fork of the
    collective.jstraining package.


For this exercise, we will add an angular 2 application to a plone bundle.

We have most of the angular 2 boiler plate code created for you so let's just
finish up a few things so you can customize it.

We will be working in the ``exercise3`` directory of the collective.jstraining package.

Bootstrap
---------

Install npm dependencies::

    cd exercise3/static
    npm install


Add your angular 2 component
----------------------------

In your ``exercise3/static/app`` directory, add a file named ``app.component.ts``. Use
this file to do anything you would like to the page. This example will stick
with the angular 2 quickstart code. We hope you like typescript::

    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    @Component({
      selector: '.my-app',
      template: '<h1>NG2 from Exercise 3</h1>'
    })
    export class AppComponent { }


You can do whatever in this module however, please notice how we changed the
selector to ``.my-app``. In Angular 2, the selector can be anything. By changing
it to a class name, it'll be easier for us to choose where we want to bootstrap
our angular 2 component.


Register static resource directory
----------------------------------

Next, let’s register the static directory we just placed our script into. To
register, you need to add ZCML registration for the static directory your script
is in. Add this to the ``exercise3/configure.zcml`` file::

    <plone:static
         directory="static"
         type="plone"
         name="exercise3"
         />


Build the file with webpack
---------------------------

Our deployment is built using webpack::

    cd exercise3/static
    webpack


Whenever you make a change to your component files, webpack will auto re-build
the distribution.


Register JavaScript resource as a bundle
----------------------------------------

Register our script as a JavaScript resource with Plone. In the
``exercise3/profiles/default/registry.xml`` file, add configuration to register
your script::

    <records prefix="plone.bundles/exercise3"
              interface='Products.CMFPlone.interfaces.IBundleRegistry'>
      <value key="merge_with">default</value>
      <value key="enabled">True</value>
      <value key="compile">False</value>
      <value key="jscompilation">++plone++exercise3/exercise3-compiled.min.js</value>
      <value key="csscompilation">++plone++exercise3/exercise3-compiled.css</value>
      <value key="last_compilation">2016-10-04 00:00:00</value>
    </records>


A couple notes about this configuration:

- ``merge_with`` tells plone to combine this file with the default Plone bundles
- ``compile`` is distinguish this bundle as one that is compiled outside of Plone
- ``jscompilation`` and ``csscompilation`` are what Plone uses as the final compiled output


Installation
------------

1) Start up your Plone instance
2) Install the ``Exercise 3`` add-on


Running
-------

It's up to you how to apply the component class name to an element of your choice.
A couple options available to you are:

1) use TinyMCE source view and add ``class="my-app"`` onto any tag
2) customize the theme on your site and add it to an element in your theme file
   or use a diazo rule diazo rule to dynamically add the class to an element


Development
-----------

To make sure your changes are loaded after every build with webpack, make sure
to go into Site setup -> Resource registries and enabled development mode.


Production
----------

Production for this is simple when you're no longer in development mode on
your Plone site. Webpack rebuilds the JavaScript distribution on every change.
