Exercise 4: NG2 APP in logged in bundle
=======================================

..  warning::

    This exercise requires a working buildout using a fork of the
    collective.jstraining package.


For this exercise, we will add an angular 2 application to a plone bundle.

We have most of the angular 2 boilerplate code created for you so let's just
finish up a few things so you can customize it.

We will be working in the ``exercise4`` directory of the collective.jstraining package.

Bootstrap
---------

Install npm dependencies::

    cd exercise4/static
    npm install


Add your angular 2 component
----------------------------

In your ``exercise4/static/app`` directory, add a file named ``app.component.ts``. Use
this file to do anything you would like to the page. This example will stick
with the angular 2 quickstart code. We hope you like typescript::

    import { Component } from '@angular/core';
    @Component({
      selector: '.my-app',
      template: '<h1>NG2 from Exercise 4</h1>'
    })
    export class AppComponent { }


You can do whatever in this module however, please notice how we changed the
selector to ``.my-app``. In Angular 2, the selector can be anything. By changing
it to a class name, it'll be easier for us to choose where we want to bootstrap
our angular 2 component.


Register static resource directory
----------------------------------

Next, let’s register the static directory we just placed our script into. To
register, you need to add ZCML registration for the static directory your script
is in. Add this to the ``exercise4/configure.zcml`` file::

    <plone:static
         directory="static"
         type="plone"
         name="exercise4"
         />


Build the file with webpack
---------------------------

Our deployment is built using webpack::

    cd exercise4/static
    webpack


Whenever you make a change to your component files, webpack will auto re-build
the distribution


Register JavaScript resource
----------------------------

Let’s register our script as a JavaScript resource with Plone. In the
``exercise4/profiles/default/registry.xml`` file, add configuration to register
your script::

    <records prefix="plone.bundles/exercise4"
              interface='Products.CMFPlone.interfaces.IBundleRegistry'>
      <value key="merge_with">logged-in</value>
      <value key="enabled">True</value>
      <value key="compile">False</value>
      <value key="expression">python: member is not None</value>
      <value key="jscompilation">++plone++exercise4/exercise4-compiled.min.js</value>
      <value key="csscompilation">++plone++exercise4/exercise4-compiled.css</value>
      <value key="last_compilation">2016-10-04 00:00:00</value>
    </records>


Pay attention to this part of the exercise. Here we merge the bundle with
``logged-in`` instead of ``default``. We also added an ``expression`` configuration
option to specify that we only want this bundle to load for logged in users.


Installation
------------

1) Start up your Plone instance
2) Install the ``Exercise 4`` add-on


Running
-------

It's up to you how to apply the component class name to an element of your choice.
A couple options available to you are:

1) use TinyMCE source view and add ``class="my-app"`` onto any tag
2) customize the theme on your site and add it to an element in your theme file
   or use a diazo rule diazo rule to dynamically add the class to an element


..  warning::

   To make sure your resource registry configuration changes apply, you'll need to
   be in development mode. You can also toggle development mode on and off,
   click save, to force configuration to be re-built after changes instead of
   keeping development mode on.


Development
-----------

To make sure your changes are loaded after every build with webpack, make sure
to go into Site setup -> Resource registries and enabled development mode.


Production
----------

Production for this is simple when you're no longer in development mode on
your Plone site. Webpack rebuilds the JavaScript distribution on every change.
