Gallery integration with theme
==============================

..  warning::

    This exercise requires a working buildout using a fork of the
    collective.jstraining package.


In this exercise, we'll be walking through how to include custom JavaScript
into your theme.

This example essentially re-uses the Barceloneta theme. It's more important
to pay attention to how the integration with the theme works, than worrying
about diazo/theming details for this exercise.

We will be working in the ``exercise5`` directory of the collective.jstraining package.

Add your JavaScript file
------------------------

The lightGallery distribution files are already included in the
``collective.jstraining`` package you're working with.

In your ``exercise5/static`` directory, add a file named ``integration.js``.
We'll use this file to integrate with Plone's album view::

    require([
      'jquery',
      '++theme++exercise5/lightgallery/js/lightgallery.min'
    ], function($){
      $(document).ready(function() {
        var $photos = $('.photoAlbumEntry a');
        if($photos.size() > 0){
          // we're on an album view page
          // we need to adjust links so the work nicely with light gallery
          $photos.each(function(){
            var $a = $(this);
            $a.attr('href', $a.attr('href').replace('/view', ''));
          });
          $("#content-core").lightGallery({
            selector: '.photoAlbumEntry a'
          });
        }
      });
    });


Let's talk about each part of this file in detail...

Require the lightGallery JavaScript::

    ...
    require([
      'jquery',
      '++theme++exercise5/lightgallery/js/lightgallery.min'
    ], function($){
    ...

This tells RequirejS to load the jQuery and the lightGallery JavaScript.

What is important to pay attention to in this example is that we're seeing
if there are any ``photoAlbumEntry`` elements on the page.

If there are, we modify the DOM structure slightly to work seemlessly with
lightGallery::

    ...
    var $photos = $('.photoAlbumEntry a');
    if($photos.size() > 0){
      // we're on an album view page
      // we need to adjust links so the work nicely with light gallery
      $photos.each(function(){
        var $a = $(this);
        $a.attr('href', $a.attr('href').replace('/view', ''));
      });
    ...


Finally, we call the lightGallery initialization with our configuration::

    ...
    $("#content-core").lightGallery({
      selector: '.photoAlbumEntry a'
    });
    ...


Including JavaScript/CSS into your theme
----------------------------------------

For JavaScript and CSS, you can include resources with convenience theme
configuration settings of ``development-css``, ``production-css``, ``development-js``
and ``production-js``.

Since we're reusing the existing Barceloneta theme with this example though,
we'll simple include the JavaScript/CSS into the theme ``index.html`` file.


CSS
~~~

In the bottom of the head section in the ``index.html`` file, add::

  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
          href="../++theme++exercise5/lightgallery/css/lightgallery.min.css" />


JavaScript
~~~~~~~~~~

In the bottom of the ``index.html`` file, add::

  <script src="../++theme++exercise5/integration.js"></script>


Installation
------------

1) Start up your Plone instance
2) Install the ``Exercise 5`` add-on


Trying it out
-------------

1) Create a folder and add some images to it in your Plone site.

2) Specify ``Album view`` for your folder.

3) Now when you click on an image, it should show the gallery viewer.


Production
----------

In this example, there is no difference with development vs production.

You can combine this example with other examples of building JavaScript projects
to build, compile and minify your resources.
