Simple Pattern
==============

..  warning::

    This exercise requires a working buildout using a fork of the
    collective.jstraining package.


In this exercise, we'll be walking through creating a simple Plone pattern.

We will be working in the ``exercise6`` directory of the collective.jstraining package.

Add your pattern file
---------------------

First off, in your ``exercise6/static`` directory, add a file named ``pattern.js``. Use
this file to build your pattern. This example will stay very simple we’ll use
jQuery to do a simply modify the content of an element::

    define([
      'jquery',
      'mockup-patterns-base',
    ], function($, Base) {
      'use strict';

      var Pattern = Base.extend({
        name: 'exercise6',
        trigger: '.pat-exercise6',
        parser: 'mockup',
        defaults: {
        },
        init: function() {
          var that = this;
          that.$el.append(' <span>Exercise 6 was here</span>');
        }
      });

      return Pattern;
    });


For more details on how to write a mockup pattern, utilize the various resources
available.

- `Minimal pattern <https://github.com/collective/mockup-minimalpattern>`_
- `Mockup docs <http://plone.github.io/mockup/dev/>`_
- `Patternslib <http://patternslib.com/>`_


In our example, we're using the RequireJS ``define`` function to define our pattern
as a JavaScript module.


Integrating with LESS
---------------------

Add a ``pattern.less`` file to the ``exercise6/static`` directory and provide
whatever styles you'd like for your pattern::

    .pat-exercise6 {
      color: red;
    }


Creating your bundle
--------------------

To register the pattern, we'll create a bundle. Recall the difference between
using ``require`` and ``define`` from the RequireJS docs.

Our bundle will use the ``require`` function to include the JavaScript module
pattern we created our previously.

Create a ``bundle.js`` file in your ``exercise6/static`` directory::

    require([
      'exercise6'
    ], function() {
      'use strict';
    });

The only thing we're doing in this file is including the ``exercise6`` module
we defined earlier--that's it. Bundles can do more as well. Then can include
initialization code for example. See Plone's `default bundle
<https://github.com/plone/Products.CMFPlone/blob/master/Products/CMFPlone/static/plone.js>`_.

Bundles more or less tell the compiler what we care about loading. They do
the dependency resolution and include the modules that were required with them.


Register static resource directory
----------------------------------

Next, let’s register the static directory we just placed our script into. To
register, you need to add ZCML registration for the static directory your script
is in. Add this to the ``exercise6/configure.zcml`` file::

    <plone:static
         directory="static"
         type="plone"
         name="exercise6"
         />

Register your bundle
--------------------

Registering your bundle is done by adding Generic Setup xml configuration to the
Plone registry. This is done in the ``registry.xml`` file in the ``profiles/default``
directory.


Resource
~~~~~~~~

Resource is done exactly the same as in Exercise 1::

    <records prefix="plone.resources/exercise6"
              interface='Products.CMFPlone.interfaces.IResourceRegistry'>
      <value key="js">++plone++exercise6/pattern.js</value>
    </records>


Bundle resource
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The bundle resource is just another resource registration. Remember, the only
difference here is in the content of the JavaScript file. One file uses ``require``,
the other uses ``define``::

    <records prefix="plone.resources/bundle-exercise6"
              interface='Products.CMFPlone.interfaces.IResourceRegistry'>
      <value key="js">++plone++exercise6/bundle.js</value>
      <value key="css">
        <element>++plone++exercise6/pattern.less</element>
      </value>
    </records>


Bundle
~~~~~~

Finally, let's create our bundle registration::

    <records prefix="plone.bundles/exercise6"
              interface='Products.CMFPlone.interfaces.IBundleRegistry'>
      <value key="resources">
        <!-- reference to bundle resource definition -->
        <element>bundle-exercise6</element>
      </value>
      <value key="merge_with">default</value>
      <value key="enabled">True</value>
      <value key="jscompilation">++plone++exercise6/exercise6-compiled.min.js</value>
      <value key="csscompilation">++plone++exercise6/exercise6-compiled.css</value>
      <value key="last_compilation">2016-10-04 00:00:00</value>

      <!-- so we don't include these modules multiple times -->
      <value key="stub_js_modules">
        <element>jquery</element>
        <element>mockup-patterns-base</element>
      </value>
    </records>


Installation
------------

1) Start up your Plone instance
2) Install the ``Exercise 6`` add-on


Running
-------

At this point, we have no compiled version of the code that we're running with
so our code doesn't do anything.

1) Go into ``Site Setup`` -> ``Resource Registries``
2) Check "Development Mode"
3) Select to develop JavaScript and CSS for the ``exercise6`` bundle
4) Click save

This should load your JavaScript and LESS files now; however, we don't have
any elements with the ``pat-exercise6`` class assigned to them.

It's up to you how to apply the pattern class to an element of your choice. A
couple options available to you are:

1) use TinyMCE source view and add ``class="pat-exercise6"`` onto any ``p`` tag
2) customize the theme on your site and add it to an element in your theme file
   or use a diazo rule diazo rule to dynamically add the class to an element


Production
----------

To build our bundle, we'll utilize the ``plone-compile-resources`` script that
Plone ships with.


..  warning::

    If you're not running a ZEO setup, you'll need to shut down your Plone
    instance since the ZODB in this mode does not allow multiple processes
    to access it at the same time.


An example command will look like this::

    ./bin/plone-compile-resources --site-id=Plone12 --bundle=exercise6


Once this command finishes, your bundle is built and will be deployed with your
package package.
