Pattern with react
==================

..  warning::

    This exercise requires a working buildout using a fork of the
    collective.jstraining package.


In this exercise, we'll be walking through creating a pattern that uses
ReactJS.

We will be working in the ``exercise9`` directory of the collective.jstraining package.


Add your pattern file
---------------------

First off, in your ``exercise9/static`` directory, add a file named ``pattern.js``. Use
this file to build your pattern. This example will bind a React component
to a pattern element::

    /* global require */

    require([
      'jquery',
      'mockup-patterns-base',
      'exercise9-react'
    ], function($, Base, R) {
      'use strict';
      /* combining bundle and pattern in same file this example */

      var D = R.DOM;


      var Exercise9Component = R.createClass({
        render: function(){
          return D.div({}, [
            D.span({}, 'Foobar rendered by exercise 9')
          ]);
        }
      });

      Base.extend({
        name: 'exercise9',
        trigger: '.pat-exercise9',
        parser: 'mockup',
        defaults: {
        },
        init: function() {
          var that = this;
          R.render(R.createElement(Exercise9Component, that.options), that.$el[0]);
        }
      });

    });


Notice that the ``init`` of the pattern utilizes the React element binding syntax.
From there, react takes over and options from the pattern go into ``props`` for
the React component.



Register static resource directory
----------------------------------

Next, let’s register the static directory we just placed our script into. To
register, you need to add ZCML registration for the static directory your script
is in. Add this to the ``exercise9/configure.zcml`` file::

    <plone:static
         directory="static"
         type="plone"
         name="exercise9"
         />

Register your bundle
--------------------

Registration is done exactly like the other examples::

    <records prefix="plone.resources/exercise9-react"
             interface='Products.CMFPlone.interfaces.IResourceRegistry'>
      <value key="js">++plone++exercise9/react.min.js</value>
      <value key="css">
      </value>
    </records>

    <records prefix="plone.resources/exercise9"
              interface='Products.CMFPlone.interfaces.IResourceRegistry'>
      <value key="js">++plone++exercise9/pattern.js</value>
      <value key="css">
        <element>++plone++exercise9/pattern.less</element>
      </value>
    </records>

    <records prefix="plone.bundles/exercise9"
              interface='Products.CMFPlone.interfaces.IBundleRegistry'>
      <value key="resources">
        <element>exercise9</element>
      </value>
      <value key="merge_with">default</value>
      <value key="enabled">True</value>
      <value key="jscompilation">++plone++exercise9/exercise9-compiled.min.js</value>
      <value key="csscompilation">++plone++exercise9/exercise9-compiled.css</value>
      <value key="last_compilation">2016-10-04 00:00:00</value>
      <value key="stub_js_modules">
        <element>jquery</element>
        <element>mockup-patterns-base</element>
      </value>
    </records>


Installation
------------

At this point, we have all the files necessary to run the pattern.

1) Start up your Plone instance
2) Install the ``Exercise 9`` add-on


Running
-------

At this point, we have no compiled version of the code that we're running with
so our code doesn't do anything.

1) Go into ``Site Setup`` -> ``Resource Registries``
2) Check "Development Mode"
3) Select to develop JavaScript and CSS for the ``exercise9`` bundle
4) Click save

This should load your JavaScript and LESS files now; however, we don't have
any elements with the ``pat-exercise9`` class assigned to them.

It's up to you how to apply the pattern class to an element of your choice. A
couple options available to you are:

1) use TinyMCE source view and add ``class="pat-exercise9"`` onto any tag
2) customize the theme on your site and add it to an element in your theme file
   or use a diazo rule diazo rule to dynamically add the class to an element


Production
----------

To build our bundle, we'll utilize the ``plone-compile-resources`` script that
Plone ships with.


..  warning::

    If you're not running a ZEO setup, you'll need to shut down your Plone
    instance since the ZODB in this mode does not allow multiple processes
    to access it at the same time.


An example command will look like this::

    ./bin/plone-compile-resources --site-id=Plone --bundle=exercise9


Once this command finishes, your bundle is built and will be deployed with your
package package.
